<article data-show="/Demos/TipCalculator/">
This article is an overview of the [Tip Calculator](https://js.devexpress.com/Demos/Simulator/?url=/Demos/TipCalculator&sm=3) demo. The TipCalculator is a cross-platform mobile application that provides a quick and convenient way to calculate tips for a check. Inputting the sum from a check, users get the total tips due, as well as the totals and tips per person.

Technically, the TipCalculator is a simple single-screen application. It contains a single view based on an empty layout (with a single placeholder for the view). Follow this article to learn how the view is implemented using the MVVM pattern: how a ViewModel is defined, how a View is designed using DevExtreme widgets and how [Knockout](https://knockoutjs.com) is used to bind the View to the ViewModel.

The TipCalculator demo is located in your **Demos** folder within your [DevExtreme package](/concepts/Common/07%20DevExtreme%20Packages '/Documentation/Guide/Common/DevExtreme_Packages/'). In addition, you can download this demo from the [GitHub resource](https://github.com/DevExpress/DevExtreme-14.2-TipCalculator-Knockout). Go through the steps below to review what is inside.

[note]You may notice that the TipCalculator demo is localized (you will find strings replaced by the @text keys in HTML code and globalize dictionaries linked in the application). However, localization aspects are not detailed in this article for the sake of simplicity. You can learn how to localize applications in the [Localization](/concepts/40%20SPA%20Framework/6%20Localization '/Documentation/Guide/SPA_Framework/Localization/') documentation section.
</article>