**DataGrid** provides you with the capability to group grid records by values of a single or multiple columns. When grouping is applied, records with identical values in the same column or several columns are combined into one or several corresponding groups. Visually, groups are separated one from another by a [group row](/concepts/05%20Widgets/DataGrid/001%20Visual%20Elements/100%20Group%20Rows '/Documentation/Guide/Widgets/DataGrid/Visual_Elements/#Group_Rows') containing a grouping value. This topic gathers information about settings that define user-specified grouping and methods that can be used to apply grouping in code.

To group records, the user right-clicks a [column header](/concepts/05%20Widgets/DataGrid/001%20Visual%20Elements/010%20Grid%20Columns/050%20Configuring%20Column%20Headers.md '/Documentation/Guide/Widgets/DataGrid/Visual_Elements/#Grid_Columns/Configuring_Column_Headers'). This action invokes the context menu suggesting that the user selects a required item from it. Alternatively, the user can group data by dragging and dropping column headers onto/from the [group panel](/concepts/05%20Widgets/DataGrid/001%20Visual%20Elements/090%20Group%20Panel.md '/Documentation/Guide/Widgets/DataGrid/Visual_Elements/#Group_Panel'). Try both these grouping approaches in action in the **DataGrid** below.

<div class="simulator-desktop-container" data-view="/Content/Applications/16_2/UIWidgets/dxDataGridGuides/Grouping/grouping.html, /Content/Applications/16_2/UIWidgets/dxDataGridGuides/Grouping/grouping.js"></div>

Groups in a grid are always sorted even if sorting was not applied to the column before it has been used for grouping. By default, groups are sorted in ascending order. To change this, a user must click the header of the grouping column.

[note]When moving a column back from the group panel, its resulting location depends on the [allowColumnReordering](/api-reference/10%20UI%20Widgets/dxDataGrid/1%20Configuration/allowColumnReordering.md '/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Widgets/dxDataGrid/Configuration/#allowColumnReordering') option. If this option is *true*, the column will be placed exactly where its header is dropped. If *false*, the column will have a location according to the order of columns in the [columns](/api-reference/10%20UI%20Widgets/dxDataGrid/1%20Configuration/columns '/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Widgets/dxDataGrid/Configuration/columns/') array.