**DataGrid** provides API methods for editing, inserting and removing data from code.

* **Editing**		
In the [row](/concepts/10%20UI%20Widgets/70%20Data%20Grid/070%20Data%20Editing/20%20Editing%20in%20UI/20%20Row%20Mode.md '/Documentation/Guide/UI_Widgets/Data_Grid/Data_Editing/#Editing_in_UI/Row_Mode') edit mode, to switch a row into the editing state, call the [editRow(rowIndex)](/api-reference/10%20UI%20Widgets/dxDataGrid/3%20Methods/editRow(rowIndex).md '/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Widgets/dxDataGrid/Methods/#editRowrowIndex') method. To switch it back to the normal state, call either the [saveEditData()](/api-reference/10%20UI%20Widgets/dxDataGrid/3%20Methods/saveEditData().md '/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Widgets/dxDataGrid/Methods/#saveEditData') or [cancelEditData()](/api-reference/10%20UI%20Widgets/dxDataGrid/3%20Methods/cancelEditData().md '/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Widgets/dxDataGrid/Methods/#cancelEditData') methods depending on whether changes must be saved or discarded.

	In the [batch](/concepts/10%20UI%20Widgets/70%20Data%20Grid/070%20Data%20Editing/20%20Editing%20in%20UI/30%20Batch%20Mode.md '/Documentation/Guide/UI_Widgets/Data_Grid/Data_Editing/#Editing_in_UI/Batch_Mode') edit mode, to switch a cell into the editing state, call the [editCell(rowIndex, columnIndex)](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Widgets/dxDataGrid/Methods/#editCellrowIndex_columnIndex) method. To switch it back to the normal state, call the [closeEditCell()](/api-reference/10%20UI%20Widgets/dxDataGrid/3%20Methods/closeEditCell().md '/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Widgets/dxDataGrid/Methods/#closeEditCell') method. After editing is completed, call either **saveEditData()** or **cancelEditData()** to save or cancel all changes in the data source.

* **Insertion**			
To insert a new empty row into a grid, call the [addRow()](/api-reference/10%20UI%20Widgets/dxDataGrid/3%20Methods/addRow().md '/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Widgets/dxDataGrid/Methods/#addRow') method.

* **Removing**		
To remove a row, call the [deleteRow(rowIndex)](/api-reference/10%20UI%20Widgets/dxDataGrid/3%20Methods/deleteRow(rowIndex).md '/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Widgets/dxDataGrid/Methods/#deleteRowrowIndex') method with the index of the row to be removed passed as the parameter. If you have set the batch edit mode, you can recover a removed row. For this purpose, call the [undeleteRow(rowIndex)](/api-reference/10%20UI%20Widgets/dxDataGrid/3%20Methods/undeleteRow(rowIndex).md '/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Widgets/dxDataGrid/Methods/#undeleteRowrowIndex') method.

The aforesaid methods accept a row index or a column index as their parameters. When calculating the row index, note that if you have several pages in a grid, grid rows are indexed beginning with 0 on each page. If you use [grouping](/concepts/10%20UI%20Widgets/70%20Data%20Grid/040%20Grouping/010%20Grouping.md '/Documentation/Guide/UI_Widgets/Data_Grid/Grouping/') in your grid, [group rows](/concepts/10%20UI%20Widgets/70%20Data%20Grid/001%20Visual%20Elements/100%20Group%20Rows '/Documentation/Guide/UI_Widgets/Data_Grid/Visual_Elements/#Group_Rows') are counted too and thus have row indexes, although they cannot be edited. As calculating the column index tends to be slightly more complicated, see the [Calculating the Column Index](/concepts/10%20UI%20Widgets/70%20Data%20Grid/001%20Visual%20Elements/010%20Grid%20Columns/040%20Calculating%20the%20Column%20Index.md '/Documentation/Guide/UI_Widgets/Data_Grid/Visual_Elements/#Grid_Columns/Calculating_the_Column_Index') topic to learn how to do it.
